Add procedure to execute patching operations using MCP (#4688)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_applying-errata-to-hosts-by-using-mcp-server.adoc

_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="applying-errata-to-hosts-by-using-mcp-server"]

Reviewer: I would like some input on "by-using-mcp-server". Should we somehow shorten this to "by-using-ai" or "by-using-mcp" similar to {ProjectWebUI} -> `web-ui`, Hammer CLI -> `cli`, or "{Project} API" > `api`?

= Applying errata to hosts by using MCP server

[role="_abstract"]
You can use your AI application to apply errata to hosts.

[WARNING]
====
Review the actions being performed by AI before using it in production.
====

.Prerequisites
. Connect your AI application to the {Project} MCP server.
For more information, see {ManagingHostsDocURL}connecting-ai-applications-to-the-mcp-server-for-satellite[Deploying the MCP server for {Project}] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.
. Enable remote execution features for the MCP server:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> # uv run foreman-mcp-server \

Reviewer 2: No, we'll have to go the container way as we did in https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/a36be34630e53f58d4667a12509bf775a1b81770/guides/common/modules/proc_deploying-the-mcp-server-for-project.adoc?plain=1#L38 and just add the new option to the end of it

  --foreman-url https://{foreman-example-com} \
  --foreman-username $FOREMAN_USERNAME \
  --foreman-password $FOREMAN_PASSWORD \
  --allowed-rex-features katello_errata_install,katello_errata_install_by_search
----

.Procedure
. Type a prompt in your AI application to list any host with outstanding errata.
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
Show a list of hosts that require patching on my {Project}.
----
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
Categorize the list into hosts that require security patches
and hosts that require bug fix patches.
----
+
. The MCP server will return a list of hosts with installable errata to the AI application.
. Review the information and if it is correct, use the prompt to apply errata to the hosts
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
Apply Errata to Hosts
----

> Make sure that you review all the steps that the AI application performs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
Ensure that you review all the steps that the AI application performs.
```

Alternative:

```suggestion
Review all steps that the AI application performs.
```
